## Git Installation and Configuration

1. **Install Git:**
   - Download Git for free from [https://www.git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/).

2. **Command Line Setup:**
   - For Windows, use Git bash; for Mac and Linux, use the built-in terminal.
   - Check if Git is installed:
     ```bash
 git --version
 >>> 
	 git version 2.30.2.windows.1
     ```

3. **Configure Git:**
   - Set your username and email for commits:
     ```bash
 git config --global user.name "github account name"
 git config --global user.email "github account email"
 ```
 - Use `--global` for every repository, or omit for the current repo.


## Creating and Cloning a Git Repository

### GitHub Repository Setup

1. **GitHub:**
   - Sign in or create a GitHub account: [https://github.com/](https://github.com/).

2. **New Repository:**
   - Click on "+" and select "New repository."
   - Name it, add a description, and create it.
   - Optionally, initialize with a README and .gitignore files.

### Cloning Locally

1. **Copy Repository URL:**
   - Click on the green "Code" button and copy the URL.

2. **Clone in Terminal/Command Prompt:**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository_url>
   ```
   Replace `<repository_url>` with the copied URL.

3. **Navigate into Cloned Repository:**
   ```bash
   cd repository_name
   ```
   Replace `repository_name` with the cloned repository's name.

Now you have a local copy of the GitHub repository on your machine!

## Creating and Initializing a local Git Folder (without github)

1. **Create Project Folder:**
   ```bash
   mkdir myproject
   cd myproject
   ```
   - `mkdir` creates a new directory, `cd` changes the current working directory.

2. **Initialize Git:**
   ```bash
   git init
   >>> 
	   Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/user/myproject/.git/
   ```
   - Git is now set up to watch the folder.

**Note:** If you have an existing folder for Git, navigate to it in the command line or open it in your file explorer.

Now you have a Git repository with Git tracking changes in your project folder!