## Git Staging Environment

One of the core functions of Git is the concepts of the Staging Environment, and the Commit.

As you are working, you may be adding, editing and removing files. But whenever you hit a milestone or finish a part of the work, you should add the files to a Staging Environment.

**Staged** files are files that are ready to be **committed** to the repository you are working on. 

The file should be **Staged**. Let's check the status:
```bash
git status

>>>
	On branch master
	
	No commits yet
	
	Changes to be committed:
	  (use "git rm --cached ..." to unstage)
	    new file: index.html
```
Now the file has been added to the Staging Environment.


## Git Add More than One File

You can also stage more than one file at a time. Let's add 2 more files to our working folder. Use the text editor again.

A css file and a `README.md` file that describes the repository (recommended for all repositories):

Now add all files in the current directory to the Staging Environment:

Both `git add --all` and `git add .` are commands used to stage changes for the next commit in a Git repository. However, there is a subtle difference between the two:

1. **`git add --all`:**
   - Stages all changes, including new, modified, and deleted files.
   - It stages all changes across the entire working tree.

     ```bash
     git add --all  
     ```
shortcut: `git add -A`

2. **`git add .`:**
   - Stages new and modified files, but not deleted files.
   - It stages changes in the current directory and its subdirectories.

     ```bash
     git add .
     ```

In summary, `git add --all` stages all changes, including deletions, across the entire working tree, while `git add .` stages changes only in the current directory and its subdirectories, and excludes deletions. The choice between them depends on whether you want to stage deletions as well.