### Working with Git Branches

### **Branch in Git:**
- A separate version of the main repository.
- Allows isolated development on different features or fixes.

### Without Git

1. **Copy Files:**
    - Duplicate files to avoid affecting the live version.
2. **Encounter Dependencies:**
    - Make copies and update references for dependencies.
3. **Unrelated Error:**
    - Face an unrelated error, save, and note changes.
4. **Fix and Return:**
    - Fix the unrelated error and return to design work.
5. **Update Live Version:**
    - Copy or rename files to update the live version.

### With Git
1. **Create New Branch:**
    - Use branches (e.g., `new-design`) for isolated work.
2. **Handle Unrelated Error:**
    - Create a branch (`small-error-fix`) for unrelated errors.
3. **Fix Error and Merge:**
    - Fix the error, merge `small-error-fix` with the main branch.
4. **Continue Work:**
    - Continue work on `new-design` and merge with the main branch.

Branches allow isolated work on different aspects without impacting the main project.


## New Git Branch

### 1. Create a new branch:
```bash
git branch branch-name
```

example:
```bash
git branch hello-world-images
```

### 2. Confirm created branches:
```bash
git branch
>>>
	  hello-world-images
	* master
```
\* next to "master" indicates the currently active branch
### 3. Switch to a branch:
```bash
git checkout hello-world-images
>>>
	Switched to branch 'hello-world-images'
```
**Note:** Use `-b` to create and move to a new branch if it doesn't exist.


Now we have moved our current workspace from the master branch, to the new `branch`
Open your favorite IDE and make some changes.

## Emergency Branch

Now imagine that we are not yet done with hello-world-images, but we need to fix an error on master.

You don't want to mess with master directly, and you also do not want to mess with hello-world-images, since it is not done yet.

So we create a new branch to deal with the emergency:

```bash
git checkout -b emergency-fix
>>>
	Switched to a new branch 'emergency-fix'
```

Now we have created a new branch from master, and changed to it. We can safely fix the error without disturbing the other branches.

We have made changes in this file, and we need to get those changes to the master branch.

1. Check the status - `git status`
2. stage the file - `git add --all`
3. commit - `git commit -m "your message"`

Now we have a fix ready for master, and we need to merge the two branches.